# Magic in Tor'Dath
(reference material doc, not final)
Magic in tordath stems from various sources, but the majority is from the leylines of the world, very few are mapped as they're near the surface, the few that are known have Center's of Knowledge located where they are nearest to the surface and are closely guarded by the nations that control them.

## Using Magic in Tor'Dath
- When a wizard casts a spell they're artificially weaving the energies from a nearby leyline and binding it in the scriptures of the spells in their spellbook when they prepare their spells after a long rest.  
- A sorceror is a being naturally infused from the raw power of leyline energy, either from the bloodline of an ancestor, being nearby a leyline for an extended time, or direct exposure. A sorceror's magical connection to leyline energy becomes more apparent the nearer a sorceror is to a leyline, this makes Sorceror adept and useful for helping locate leylines, if a sorceror can be found that is.  
- An artificer uses technology to store and use the leyline enegies much like a wizard does, however it is artificially bound and contained in a battery like device called a *Mythallar* rather than weaved naturally like how a wizard would.  
- A bard weaves the energies of leylines through their performances weaving spells much like how wizards would but rather than ingraining the magical energy into text, the brads weave the magic as they perform. Creating a more natural access to the powers of leyline magic than a wizard, but not as strongly as how sorcerors channels their power.
- Druids specifically use a Leyline magic to use their spells and abilities channelling it through their connection with the natural environment around them.

## Divine magic
True clerics draw their power directly from their dieties.

## Patron Magic
Warlocks draw their powers directly from their patrons and do not use leyline magic directly, however their patron's might.

## Spirit Magic
Spirit magic is granted by the ancestors of one's past. Often the shamanistic barbarian tribes of Tothwescom and Stroth practice such magic. That said a Monk's Ki points are rooted in this magical power as well.

## Oaths
Oaths are rituals of binding using both Spirit and Divine magic. As long as the sworn tenants stand true, the one who swears by them can expect the powers promised to stand true. That said, if a tenant is broken, the Oathbreaker (DMG subclass) is infused purely with the magic of the spirits of those who have broken their Oaths in the past and are haunted by them.

# Optional Rule: Epic Magic
When players are able to be in direct access of a leyline they can perform power magical spells not normally available to them or even cast a spell at a higher level than they normally would.  
To use a leyline to cast a spell has a few requirements:  
- The spell can only be cast through a ritual  
- It takes at least four casters to channel the leyline magic  
- The casters must be at least level 10 and proficient with Arcana  
- Material Components must be met

If these requirements are me the players can attempt to cast a epic magic spell. The players must first pass a Arcana check (minimum DC 20), however even if they pass this check the spell has a 25% chance of failure increasing for every average player level below 20 by an additional 5%.  
*Example for failure chance:*
Four casters at level 10 have a 75% chance of failure, whereas four players at level 15 have a 50% chance.  

On a successful casting the individuals involved cannot cast another epic magic spell for a full year this is because utilizing leylines like this has drawbacks. First of all the direct exposure to the raw power of a leyline can make an indidivual physically weaker and more frail do the chaotic nature of the magical power this is usually only temporary (1d4 +1 days). On a failure however can result in memory loss, death, complete inability to cast magic, or whatever a sadistical Dungeon Master can come up with. A failure however will never result in an opposite alignment change.

## Epic Magic Spell List

**Marvin's Earthfast**  

The spell was originally created to allow continued mining of areas that would otherwise be too dangerous to mine. A casting of Mavin’s earthfast made large areas of underground tunnels impervious to cave-ins and similar disasters. Its use was later adapted to preserve important areas of cities.

The components needed for this spell were a stone of controlling earth elementals, six chardalyns (each imbued with transmute mud to rock), and an earth elemental.

**Proctiv’s Move Mountain**  

Proctiv’s move mountain shears off a mountaintop and inverts and levitates it.

The material components for this spell were a mythallar (which needed to be placed in the new city within two weeks), a magical device that allowed flying or levitation, and a crystal ball.

Without this spell the construction of enclaves would have been near-impossible.


**Proctiv’s Breach Crystal Sphere**

Proctiv’s seal crystal sphere was a powerful arcanist spell that permanently shut off a whole crystal sphere against access by spelljamming ships.

It was actually the reverse version of the name-giving spell Proctiv’s breach crystal sphere, which removed an earlier-cast seal crystal sphere, thus opening up portals through that crystal sphere again.

Next to verbal components, the material component for this spell was a spelljammer with a tonnage of 100 tons, including a major helm.

**Karsus’s Avatar**

Karsus’s avatar was a very powerful spell which altered the very disposition of reality.

The spell was even capable of allowing its user to become a god of their choosing, replacing a current god with themselves the moment the spell was completed.

It was so complex that the wizard had to put a stone-filled gizzard of a gold dragon into a mixture of tarrasque blood and 12-headed hydra bile to just enchant one of the material components of the spell. It had a casting time of six hours.

The spell was not supposed to make the caster permanently into a deity. The spell merely allowed the caster to temporarily merge with the deity and wield their powers as long as the spell lasts.

**Ioulaum’s Longevity**

This spell was developed by the powerful archwizard Ioulaum of Netheril circa the Year of Dwarves Besieged to extend his lifespan over the centuries.

Ioulaum’s longevity dealt massive damage to every creature within its area of effect. 

Any creature slain by this spell was reduced to dust. 

The spell also damaged constructs, objects, and undead, but only living creatures could contribute to the longevity of the caster. 

Each living creature destroyed by this spell extended the life of the caster by one year.

This spell required verbal and somatic components to cast, but without live creatures within the radius of effect there would have been no longevity benefit.

**Tolodine’s Killing Wind**

Tolodine’s killing wind was a spell of epic magic. Creating a murderous green mist to envelope any creature and dissolve their flesh and bones.

This spell, was invented by the Netherese arcanist Tolodine one year before his death, as his crowning achievement. 

It had the distinction of being the first epic spell developed by the Netherese. 

Though it could no longer be cast after Mystra changed the rules governing magic after Karsus’s Folly.

**Bonfire of Insanity**

A Bonfire of insanity is a vile ritual performed during rainstorms by powerful necromancers. 

They build a pyre of human bones and burn it as the rain pours. 

As the smoke from the fire rises to the clouds, the rain itself is tainted for a mile around the ritual site. 

Corpses buried in even the most sacrosanct earth rise as undead creatures and any humanoids that the rain touches are infected with a disease that will transform them into a ghoul by the next day unless a heal spell is cast upon them.

**Necromantic Singularity**

When cast, necromantic singularity created a temporary link between the Prime Material Plane, the Weave, and the Negative Energy Plane. 

The negative energy passed from the Negative to the Prime was strong enough to slay dozens, if not hundreds, of victims near the point of opening.

With the collapse of the Weave, no reports of the spell being cast have been made.

A sphere of annihilation, destroyed upon casting, was required to cast the spell.
