# Races
Tor'Dath is home to all the races found in every published content for your RPG, though this setting was designed for a D&D 5e campaign in particular. It's not exactly difficult to find a place for each race and there really aren't any new races intended for Tor'Dath at this time. As this campaign setting expands this may be subject to change.

## The Common Races
You find these races with a sizable population in most every nation and they are generally accepted by the masses.

### Dwarves
Dwarves are more numerous in the southern mountain regions of the eastern continent, but are still a fairly common sight.

### Elves
There is rarely a forest without an elf, though they often tend to seclude themselves to the said forests it’s not unusual to see them out in the world as well. They are most numerous in the forests of Elvaria and Pelechinia.

### Halflings
Half hail from Bevelinar. They’ve even taken up as a rather wealthy seafaring race in the past couple hundred years and have become a fairly common sight among the sailors of Tor'Dath.

### Humans
Humans are the most numerous race in the lands, there is barely a nation or land that does not have at least a medium portion of humans in it’s population.

## The Uncommon Races
Just a note, in some parts of the world members of these races are treated very unfriendly, or even potentially hunted down.  
*Monstrous Races from Volo's Guide to monsters are allowed though may not be referenced in this guide*

### Goliaths
All Goliaths call Tothwescom home even if they’ve never been there. You’ll often find the Goliath tribes in the tallest and coldest of mountain ranges.

### Half-Elves
Half-Elves are born from a human and elf parent and are often treated fairly better than most of the other uncommon races, but to a human they look like elves. And, to elves they look like humans. This leads many half-elves to live a secluded life.

### Half-Orcs
Often born to a human and orc parents the Half-Orcs are treated well for Orcs, but not so well the humans of the kingdoms. Thus you’ll only really see a sizable population in Stroth living among the barbaric orc tribes or the more shamanist tribes of the Stroth.

### Kenku
Kenku are a cursed race of ancient Chernians where they ruled over a vast empire that collapsed thousands of years ago and is mostly forgetten in mortal memory. At least for those that are not among the Kenku. Today you'll see the Kenku most often in the Taran Empire near their ancient homeland

### Orc
Often living in tribes Orc are the most numerous of the uncommon races, though when you see one outside of Tothwescom or Stroth it’s because the tribe lost it’s territory to another.

### Tabaxi
The Tabaxi hail from Bevelinar and much like Halflings sail on the high seas trading with the various nations.

### Tiefling
Often mistaken the demons the Tiefling’s of Tor’Dath actually are suprisingly more related to the Yaun-Ti than humans, though no one is truly sure of the Tiefling race’s origin. It’s not so uncommon to see a Tiefling outside of Medbia or the Taran Empire, but even then it’s rare enough that many people might only ever meet a single one even among the Tiefling themselves.

### Triton
Hailing exclusively from the seafaring nation of Pilto the Triton are a very isolationist society. As a result many areas might not have seen a Triton for generations let alone even believe they actually exist.

