# Pantheon
The gods of Tor'Dath are often not referred to by their direct name, but rather they often referred to in descriptive nicknames or aliases. You'll see the most common names listed.  
The gods are distant from Tor'Dath but they don't leave the planet abandoned, instead they may go only as far as the smallest influence on the world. That said there have been times before where mortal's have ascended to godhood, or even gods have fallen.  
Malliel stands atop as the lone Head of the Pantheon while the rest serve as his advisors.

## Dro'Kaar
Domains: Twilight, Grave, Death  
Symbol: The Gagged Skull  
Alternative Names: The Moon Lord, The Fallen One  
Alignment: Chaos

A mysterious god that little is known about. Legends say he once tried to Usurp Malliel but fell to Rapha when she was still on the mortal plane.

## Galador
Domains: Knowledge, Arcana  
Symbol: A Scroll in a 6 pointed star  
Alternative Names: The Scribe, The Secret Keeper  
Alignment: Law

Golador is the creater of magic, and the one who knows all. He often leaves himself to his practice and avoids conflicts. He often serves as the wise advisor for the other gods. It is said that it is he who helps Maliel maintain order.

## Gonore
Domains: Light, Forge  
Symbol: Anvil engraved with a star    
Alternative Names: The Silver Hand, The Smith  
Alignment: Law

It is said that Gonore created the stars in the sky and forged the rocks of the land that make up Tor'Dath. It is said that Richa and Idiring are his daughters. It is often thought that it is his temper with Idiring's tenacity that causes the volcanoes to erupt.

## Idring
Domains: Tempest, War  
Symbol: Thunderbolt in a First quarter moon  
Alternative Names: The Stormcaller, The Lade of Battle  
Alignment: Chaos

Often regarded as the most short tempered of the Gods, Idiring is reponsible for all of the mortal races tendency for war. She is well regarded by the tribal clans of the Orcs and Goliaths.  
It is said her clashes with her father are what cause the storms of the lands.  

## Maliel
Domains: Order  
Symbol: A runed staff etched with a moon, star, anvil, tree, coin, and tombstone  
Alternative Names: The Staff, The Grand-Elder, The Great-Father  
Alignment: Law

Maliel is the one who broguht the gods to Tor'Dath. He ordered Gonore to craft the lands, Goladore to supplement the water, and Richa to plant the seeds of life. He alone set the rules for the passge from life to death and tasked Rapha the task of enforcing them. Nimrime to bring the eventual end for the living. Idiring was tasked with introducing the various mortal races to the others of their kind. Little did he know Idiring grew bored with her task and instill the thrill of war into the races. Maliel is often followed by Monks who seek nuetrality in all things.  

## Nimrime
Domain: Trickery, Death  
Symbol: Dagger in a coin  
Alternative Names: The Trickster, The Lord of Secrets  
Alignment: Chaos

Nimrime rules over the domain of death and intentionally seeks to undermine Rapha through trickery and deception. He is faithful are Thieves, Murdurers, and suprisingly... Merchants. For afterall the greatest merchant... has no competition.
## Rapha
Domains: Grave, Blood  
Symbol: Axe stuck in a tombstone  
Alternative Names: The Lady Most Kind, The Blood-Soaked Goddess  
Alignment: Chaos  

Rapha is the Goddess of Vampires, as well as the watcher of the graves. She took upon the task of watching the passage of souls when Dro'Kaar fell. Rapha is considered the youngest of the members of the pantheon and her vampiric heritage brought Blood magic to the world.

## Richa
Domains: Life, Nature  
Symbol: Upward pointing Spade in a tree  
Alternative Names: The Lady of Gardens, The Kind Sister  
Alignment: Law

Worshipped mostly by farmers Richa is said to be the eldest of the gods second only to Maliel himself. Richa is said to be the one who planted the seeds of life on Tor'Dath it is said that Idiring is her younger sister and Gonore is her father.
